Welcome to this
course on Fortran
for scientific computing.
So why would you want to learn
Fortran in the first place?
Well, it's a language
that's specifically
designed with scientific
computing in mind.
So it's easy to develop
scientific applications.
Also, it will give you a very
decent performance just out
of the box.
Those are compelling
reasons to use Fortran
as a programming language
for scientific computing.
It's actually a
pretty old language.
But it has evolved
over the decades
and embraced new ideas
and new paradigms.
And we will be discussing
the latest Fortran standard,
which is Fortran 2018.
In week one, you'll learn how
to set up your own development
environment.
And you will also be covering
the basics of the Fortran
programming language.
In week two, we will
go more in-depth
into the concepts of Fortran
and learn more about those.
Week three will
concentrate mostly
on object-oriented
programming with Fortran.
While week 4 is
concerned with software
engineering issues, but
mostly, with performance,
which is, of course,
very important
in scientific computing.
In week five will be
covering scientific libraries.
So basically, it's no good
to reinvent the wheel.
So you should be
aware that there
are many scientific libraries
available in the Fortran
ecosystem.
We'll also discuss
parallel programming
a little bit, not
in depth, but just
to give you an idea of
what's possible with Fortran.
Each week, there are
capstone exercises.
And those are, in fact,
the most important thing,
which you should do because
they're open exercises, which
have been selected
to be somewhat
challenging and
somewhat interesting
from a scientific perspective.
And we hope that you
will enjoy those.
Those are the best learning
opportunities, actually.
OK, so let's get started.
We hope you will have some
fun and that definitely you
learn something that's useful
for you in your career.